# End-to-end deep reinforcement learning for targeted drug generation
The long period of time and the enormous financial costs required to bring a new drug to the market are a clear impediment to the development of new drugs. One strategy to minimize these issues is to use Deep Learning techniques at an early stage to select candidate drugs with biological properties of interest, reducing the enormous research space of drug-like compounds.
Thus, our approach is to perform targeted generation of molecules by training a recurrent neural network to learn the building rules for the generation of valid molecules in the form of SMILES strings, \emph {Generator}, and then optimize it to produce molecules with bespoke properties through Reinforcement Learning (RL). The fitness of the newly generated molecules is obtained by a second neural network model, \emph{Predictor}.
In the first stage, each network is trained independently. \emph{the Generator} is trained to produce potent molecules, and the Predictor is trained to predict its characteristics, including biological affinities. At the second stage, \emph{the Generator} is trained using RL. In this procedure, the agent (Generator) interacts with the environment through its actions and receives a numerical reward, assigned by the critic (Predictor). The novelty of this approach is the exploratory strategy that ensures, throughout the training process, a compromise between the need to acquire information about the environment and the need to make the correct decisions taking into account the goal. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the method, we trained \emph{the Generator} to design molecules with high inhibitory power for the $\kappa$-opioid receptor (KOR).
